README.md, before:

# Android Studio Flatpak Wrapper

This is a community-made Flatpak wrapper of Android Studio. It's not verified by, affiliated with, or supported by Google.

This wrapper uses X11 via XWayland, due to missing support in OpenJDK. Filesystem visibility is voluntarily limited to home, and `flatpak-spawn` is not permitted because it would reduce security.

Any suggestions, problem reports, or improvement proposals are welcome.

## Android `udev` Rules

Many systems need `udev` rules to handle USB devices, we suggest these: [`android-udev-rules`](https://github.com/M0Rf30/android-udev-rules).

## ADB SystemD Service

If you want to start ADB Server Daemon on user login (and not on Android Studio boot), this is a SystemD service example.

To disable management by Android Studio go, to:

1. "Settings",
2. "Build, Execution, Deployment",
3. "Debugger", and
4. "ADB server lifecycle management".

Then, select "Use existing manually managed server".

```desktop
[Unit]
Description=Android Debug Server Daemon

[Service]
Type=forking
ExecStart=%h/android/sdk/platform-tools/adb start-server
ExecStop=%h/android/sdk/platform-tools/adb kill-server

[Install]
WantedBy=default.target
```

## AVD Emulator on copy-on-write filesystems

It's recommended to disable the copy-on-write behavior of the AVD Manager storage folder in order to run Android Virtual Devices without performance penalties. Most filesystems with this behavior (eg. BTRFS, ZFS, Bcachefs, etc.) support changing this configuration on a per-folder basis:

```
chattr +C ~/.var/app/com.google.AndroidStudio/config/.android/avd
```
> [!IMPORTANT]
> This should only be done once, before creating any virtual devices. AVDs created prior won't be affected.

## LLVM

If you need LLVM for flutter app or something else you can install [`SDK Extension for LLVM Project 20`](https://github.com/flathub/org.freedesktop.Sdk.Extension.llvm20) and link to Android Studio,
required `build-options` are already present. You can use this commands:

```shell
flatpak install flathub org.freedesktop.Sdk.Extension.llvm20
flatpak override --user com.google.AndroidStudio --env=FLATPAK_ENABLE_SDK_EXT="llvm20"
```

Commit message:

Update `README.md` to include the safest SELinux bypass for AVD. (#283)
* Update `README.md` to include safest SELinux bypass for AVD.

Applies https://github.com/flathub/com.google.AndroidStudio/issues/234#issuecomment-3000106347 to remediate SELinux AVC denial on F42.

* Add explanation for SELinux mitigations to `README.md`.

Incorporates https://github.com/flathub/com.google.AndroidStudio/pull/283#issuecomment-3001167625.

* Replace `~` with `$HOME` in `README.md`.

See [`stackoverflow.com/a/5930731`](https://stackoverflow.com/a/5930731/9731176) and similar.

* Improve the SELinux explanation in `README.md`.

README.md, after:

# Android Studio Flatpak Wrapper

This is a community-made Flatpak wrapper of Android Studio. It's not verified by, affiliated with, or supported by Google.

This wrapper uses X11 via XWayland, due to missing support in OpenJDK. Filesystem visibility is voluntarily limited to home, and `flatpak-spawn` is not permitted because it would reduce security.

Any suggestions, problem reports, or improvement proposals are welcome.

## Android `udev` Rules

Many systems need `udev` rules to handle USB devices, we suggest these: [`android-udev-rules`](https://github.com/M0Rf30/android-udev-rules).

## ADB SystemD Service

If you want to start ADB Server Daemon on user login (and not on Android Studio boot), this is a SystemD service example.

To disable management by Android Studio go, to:

1. "Settings",
2. "Build, Execution, Deployment",
3. "Debugger", and
4. "ADB server lifecycle management".

Then, select "Use existing manually managed server".

```desktop
[Unit]
Description=Android Debug Server Daemon

[Service]
Type=forking
ExecStart=%h/android/sdk/platform-tools/adb start-server
ExecStop=%h/android/sdk/platform-tools/adb kill-server

[Install]
WantedBy=default.target
```

## AVD Emulator

### SELinux

Some OSes (at least, Fedora and RHEL) enable SELinux, which restricts what unusual actions applications can perform without previous authorisation, in order to improve security. However, complex applications, like Android Studio's AVD Manager, need to be able to bypass this, in order to perform such low-level actions. Unfortunately, Flatpak does not yet support configuring this automatically, so the user must.

On these OSes, when an AVD is invoked without the override active, `gnome-abrt` shall inform the user that `qemu-system-x86` has `SIGABRT`'d. To prevent this, apply the undermentioned override:

```sh
#!/usr/bin/env sh
sudo ausearch -c 'RenderThread' --raw | audit2allow -M my-RenderThread && \
sudo semodule -X 300 -i my-RenderThread.pp
```

Because this is a matter of security, on Fedora, the user can install `sealert`, which shall appear when `gnome-abrt` does, and inform the user that this approach is correct. It is an official Red Hat tool.

### On copy-on-write filesystems

It's recommended to disable the copy-on-write behavior of the AVD Manager storage folder in order to run Android Virtual Devices without performance penalties. Most filesystems with this behavior (eg. BTRFS, ZFS, Bcachefs, etc.) support changing this configuration on a per-folder basis:

```sh
#!/usr/bin/env sh
chattr +C $HOME/.var/app/com.google.AndroidStudio/config/.android/avd
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> This should only be done once, before creating any virtual devices. AVDs created prior won't be affected.

## LLVM

If you need LLVM for flutter app or something else you can install [`SDK Extension for LLVM Project 20`](https://github.com/flathub/org.freedesktop.Sdk.Extension.llvm20) and link to Android Studio,
required `build-options` are already present. You can use this commands:

```sh
#!/usr/bin/env sh
flatpak install flathub org.freedesktop.Sdk.Extension.llvm20 && \
flatpak override --user com.google.AndroidStudio --env=FLATPAK_ENABLE_SDK_EXT="llvm20"
```
